This document describes the operation of the arduino radio controller. 
For the purposes of this document, it is assumed it is installed in and
controlling a radio.

At power up, the frequency and mode are read from memory channel 00 in
EEPROM. These are used for initial operation. The channel number is then 
set to 01 and the radio is put in VFO mode.

The radio is put in receive mode and the band map register is set and
the band lines are output on the MCP23008 port expander to select the 
low pass filters.

The default tuning step is set to 10 hz. A line (the cursor) will appear under
the digit that will change when the rotary encoder is used to tune to 
another frequency. Pressing the button on the rotary encoder will change the
tuning speed. A short press will go from 10 hz to 100 hz to 1000 hz then back to
10 hz. A long press (> 300 msec) will toggle between 10 KHz and 100 KHz and
back to 10 KHz. A short press puts you back to 10 hz.

The LCD display will show the following:
Left, top line:
VF (vfo mode)
01 (the memory channel in CHANNEL mode is set for channel 01)
The transmit frequency (receive frequency will differ in certain modes)
A 'R' for receive.

Left, bottom line:
The mode (LSB, USB, etc)
DC Voltage read from the DC in line

If the VFO/CHANNEL button is pressed while TURNING ON the radio, you will 
placed in the MENU mode. Details about the MENU mode are discussed later.

If the MODE/RIT button is pressed while turning the radio on, the keyer mode
will be set to auto (act as a CW keyer). If not pressed, keying will be
manual (default). (Keyer function not currently implimented).

Turning the TUNE knob will change the displayed (and RF) frequency. Clockwise
tunes UP, counter-clockwise tunes DOWN. 


A short press on the MODE button steps through the modulation modes. They are:
LSB (lower side band)
USB (upper side band)
CW-U (CW, upper side band receive)
CW-L (CW, lower side band receive)
SCAN (channel scan, receive USB, see below)
WSPR (transmit using WSPR (described below), receive upper sideband)
BECN (transmit CW beacon (described below), receive upper side band)
and then back to begining (LSB).

A short press on the VFO/CHANNEL button will toggle between VFO mode and 
CHANNEL mode. In VFO mode, you will tune between MINFREQ (set in the source 
code as 2.90 MHz) and MAXFREQ (set in source code as 15.2 MHz). 

In CHANNEL mode you can select 100 channels from 00 thru 99. Each channel
holds a frequency and mode.

When in VFO mode, a short press goes to channel mode. The current frequency 
and mode are stored. A short press while in CHANNEL mode will restore the
saved frequency and mode and jump back to VFO mode.

In CHANNEL mode rotating the rotary encoder clockwise will increase the 
channel number by 1 until channel 99. Then further clockwide rotation will 
go back to channel 00. Rotating the rotary encoder in CHANNEL mode counter-
clockwise will decrease the channel number by 1 until channel 00. Further 
rotation past 00 will go to channel 99.

When in CHANNEL mode, a long press will recall the current channel information
(frequency and mode) to the VFO, deleting whatever was in the VFO at the time.
Also you will switch from CHANNEL mode to VFO mode when recalling a channel.

When in VFO mode, a long press will store the current VFO frequency and mode to the
channel number shown in the display. The current VFO frequency and mode will not
change. You will see a displayed message that the data was stored showing the channel 
it was stored to.

If you want to store the current VFO data to a channel you are not on, do the
following:

Short press on VFO/CHANNEL button to select channel mode.
Rotate the rotary encoder to select the channel. 
Short press on VFO/CHANNEL button to go back to VFO mode.
Long press on VFO/CHANNEL button will store the displayed frequency and mode
to the displayed channel.

Note: you can tell the current channel by the 2 digit number after the VF on the display.

-- WSPR --

I've added a WSPR beacon. To use it, either dial in one of the wspr frequencies
on the VFO or go to preset channels 8-11. WSPR is time sensitive. It starts at 1 second 
after the even numbered minutes. After selecting the frequency, short press the 
MODE button to select WSPR. At 1 second past an even numbered minute, tap the transmit key.
A wspr transmission will start and continue for the next 110 seconds (appx).

Your call sign and grid are encoded in the beginning of the source code, while
the power level is encoded in the wspr routine (need to change these values for your
information).

-- DC Voltage --

Before powering up this controller, make sure the variable resistor tied to port
A0 is set so that the voltage is set to 2.5 volts with 12.5 volts at the top of the
variable resistor.

-- SWR Display --

Pin A3 is tied to a directional coupler to read reflected power during transmit.
The lower pard of the LCD display will show a set of vertical bars corrosponding
to reflected power during transmit. The greater number of bars the greater the
reflected power.

-- Setting Default Channels --

Pressing and holding the VFO/CHANNEL button during power on will enter the MENU mode.
Rotating the knob to 'set default chan'. Press the VFO/MEM button. You will see
'working' displayed. The channel number will be displayed as each channel is loaded.
After a couple seconds, you will see 'done'. Power cycle the controller and channels 
00 thru 99 will be set to the frequencies and modes 
seen in the end of the source code. NOTE: This also reset the oscillator calibration to 
0 hz and the sidetone frequency to 700 hz.

-- Calibrating the Oscillator --

Go into MENU mode (Press VFO/CHANNEL button while turning the radio on).
The first option is Calibrate Osc. Press the VFO/CHANNEL button. The current
frequency offset will be displayed (0 hz). Rotate the knob until the output at
OSC 2 is exactly 10.0 MHz. Press the VFO/CHANNEL button to set. Power cycle to 
resume normal operations.

-- Sidetone -- 

During transmit, sidetone is generated at pin A1. This is a square wave and should 
be fed to a low pass audio filter to make it sound better. Also the sidetone frequency 
is used as a cw offset in receive. You can change this. Power off the radio. Press and
hold the VFO/CHAN button while turning on to enter the MENU mode. Rotate the knob
until SIDETONE appears. Press the VFO/CHAN button. Now rotating the knob will change
the frequency of the sidetone (and cw offset) down to 500 hz and up to 1000 hz. The
sidetone will also be operational while adjusting. When you get the tone you want
press the VFO/CHAN button to save.

Power cycling the radio will go back to normal operation.

-- RIT --

Press and hold the MODE/RIT button (long press, > 300 msec). This enables the RIT
(Receive Incremental Tuning). The transmit frequency will stay fixed, but the receive
frequency will change. The default tuning speed is 10 hz, but pressing the tuning
knob will change the tune speed (see above). The VFO/CHAN and MODE functions are
disabled while in RIT mode, but you can tune to any frequency the radio allows
while in RIT mode. 

Pressing and holding the MODE/RIT button (longer than 300 ms) will turn off the RIT
mode and reset the receive frequeicy to what it was before selecting RIT.

-- SCAN --

There is a band scan feature. Press (short) the MODE button to select SCAN. When
the tuning knob is pressed the displayed frequency will step up 200 hz at a time
thru 100 KHz. When the frequency + 100 KHz is reached, the frequency will jump 
back to the starting point and resume scanning. This will repeat until the tuning
knob is pressed again.

This works in VFO mode as well as CHANNEL mode. This is useful in looking for 
activity on a dead band.

Press the MODE button again to get out of SCAN mode. The default mode while scanning
is USB.
 

--------------------------------------------

There are a lot of comments in the source code. If you are competent at all, you should
have no trouble using this.

 
